LinuxContainers.md, before:

# Linux Containers(lxc)

## Installations

```
sudo apt install lxc

sudo apt install lxd
```

## Initialization

```
lxd init
```
Choose all defaults

## List all available images:

```
lxc image alias list ubuntu:
```

### Search for specific image:
```
lxc image alias list ubuntu: '18.04'

lxc image alias list images: 'alpine'
```

## Launch a specific image:

```
lxc launch <Image name> <Container name>

lxc launch images:alpine/edge/default alpine1
or
lxc launch ubuntu:18.04 ubuntu1
```

## List of available containers

```
lxc list
```

**Detailed list:**
```
lxc list -c n,s,4,image.description:image
```

## Get info of a launched container:

```
lxc info ubuntu1
```

## Run a command on a container:

```
lxc exec <container name> <command>

lxc exec ubuntu1 hostname
```

## Entering shell environment of a container

```
lxc exec ubuntu1 bash

lxc exec ubuntu1 sh
```

## Starting a stopped container:

```
lxc start <container name>

lxc start ubuntu2
```

## Stopping a container:

```
lxc stop <container name>

lxc stop alpine1
```

## Deleting a container:

```
lxc delete <container name>

lxc delete alpine1
```

## Making a copy of a container:

```
lxc copy <src Container> <new dst container>

lxc copy ubuntu1 ubuntu2
```

## Pushing a file to a container:

```
lxc file push <Source file> <Container name>/<Destination location>

lxc file push /home/abroy/.ssh/authorized_keys ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```
Note: Push the authorized_keys file to a container to make ssh work.

## ssh into a container:
```
ssh root@<container ip address>
```

## Pull a file from a container:

```
lxc file pull <Container name>/<Source file> <Destination location>

lxc file pull ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys /home/abroy/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

## Edit a file in a container without sshing into it:

```
lxc file edit <Container name>/<File path>

lxc file edit ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

## LXC Snapshots:

### Taking a snapshot of a container:
```
lxc snapshot ubuntu1
```

'lxc list' shows snapshot of a container.

### Get details of the snapshot from:
```
lxc info ubuntu1
```

### Restoring to the snapshot:
```
lxc restore <container name> <snapshot name from 'lxc info'>

lxc restore ubuntu1 snap0
```

### Deleting a snapshot:
```
lxc delete ubuntu1/snap0
```



## Connecting LXC network interface to home LAN so that it connects to the home router:

```
lxc config device add ubuntu1 <container interface name> nic nictype=bridged parent=<local bridged adapter name> name=<local interface name>

lxc config device add ubuntu1 eth0 nic nictype=bridged parent=br0 name=eth0
```

Commit message:

Added content for Linux container

LinuxContainers.md, after:

# Linux Containers(lxc)

**Linux container** makes it possible to run multiple isolated Linux systems on one host. It is designed to be lightweight, portable, and unprivileged.

Linux containers are much faster than full virtual machines because they take up **less disk space**. **LXC** use the features of the Linux kernel such as cgroups, namespaces, chroot, etc to create a **sandboxed operating environment** for running applications in isolation.

Google's Chrome OS introduced a type of "containerization" about 10 years ago, but left it open-sourced in 2013 under the name lxc.

## Installations

```
sudo apt install lxc

sudo apt install lxd
```

## Initialization

```
lxd init
```
Choose all defaults

## List all available images:

```
lxc image alias list ubuntu:
```

### Search for specific image:
```
lxc image alias list ubuntu: '18.04'

lxc image alias list images: 'alpine'
```

## Launch a specific image:

```
lxc launch <Image name> <Container name>

lxc launch images:alpine/edge/default alpine1
or
lxc launch ubuntu:18.04 ubuntu1
```

## List of available containers

```
lxc list
```

**Detailed list:**
```
lxc list -c n,s,4,image.description:image
```

## Get info of a launched container:

```
lxc info ubuntu1
```

## Run a command on a container:

```
lxc exec <container name> <command>

lxc exec ubuntu1 hostname
```

## Entering shell environment of a container

```
lxc exec ubuntu1 bash

lxc exec ubuntu1 sh
```

## Starting a stopped container:

```
lxc start <container name>

lxc start ubuntu2
```

## Stopping a container:

```
lxc stop <container name>

lxc stop alpine1
```

## Deleting a container:

```
lxc delete <container name>

lxc delete alpine1
```

## Making a copy of a container:

```
lxc copy <src Container> <new dst container>

lxc copy ubuntu1 ubuntu2
```

## Pushing a file to a container:

```
lxc file push <Source file> <Container name>/<Destination location>

lxc file push /home/abroy/.ssh/authorized_keys ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```
Note: Push the authorized_keys file to a container to make ssh work.

## ssh into a container:
```
ssh root@<container ip address>
```

## Pull a file from a container:

```
lxc file pull <Container name>/<Source file> <Destination location>

lxc file pull ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys /home/abroy/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

## Edit a file in a container without sshing into it:

```
lxc file edit <Container name>/<File path>

lxc file edit ubuntu1/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

## LXC Snapshots:

### Taking a snapshot of a container:
```
lxc snapshot ubuntu1
```

**'lxc list'** shows snapshot of a container.

### Get details of the snapshot from:
```
lxc info ubuntu1
```

### Restoring to the snapshot:
```
lxc restore <container name> <snapshot name from 'lxc info'>

lxc restore ubuntu1 snap0
```

### Deleting a snapshot:
```
lxc delete ubuntu1/snap0
```
